BR: refine BR docs (#8628)
pingcap/docs: br/backup-storage-S3.md

---
title: Back Up and Restore Data on Amazon S3 Using BR

> summary: Learn how to use BR to back up and restore data to Amazon S3 storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to use BR to back up data to and restore data from Amazon S3 storage.
```

---

# Back Up and Restore Data on Amazon S3 Using BR

The Backup & Restore (BR) tool supports using Amazon S3 or other Amazon S3-compatible file storages as the external storage for backing up and restoring data.

## Application scenarios

> By using Amazon S3, you can quickly back up the data of a TiDB cluster deployed on Amazon EC2 to Amazon S3, or quickly a TiDB cluster from the backup data in Amazon S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using Amazon S3, you can quickly back up the data of a TiDB cluster deployed on Amazon EC2 to Amazon S3, or quickly restore a TiDB cluster from the backup data in Amazon S3.
```

## Configure privileges to access S3

> Before backup or restoration using S3, you need to configure the privileges to access S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before performing backup or restoration using S3, you need to configure the privileges required to access S3.
```

### Configure access to the S3 directory

> Before backup, configure the following privileges to access the backup directory of S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before backup, configure the following privileges to access the backup directory on S3.
```

> - Minimum privileges for TiKV and BR during backup, able to access backup directories `s3:ListBucket`, `s3:PutObject`, and `s3:AbortMultipartUpload`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Minimum privileges for TiKV and BR to access the backup directories of `s3:ListBucket`, `s3:PutObject`, and `s3:AbortMultipartUpload` during backup 
```

> - Minimum privileges for TiKV and BR during restoration, able to access backup directories `s3:ListBucket` and `s3:GetObject`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Minimum privileges for TiKV and BR to access the backup directories of `s3:ListBucket` and `s3:GetObject` during restoration
```

> If you have not yet created a backup directory, refer to [AWS Official Document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html) to create an S3 bucket in the specified Region. If necessary, you can also create a folder in the bucket by referring to [AWS official documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/using-folders.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have not yet created a backup directory, refer to [AWS Official Document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html) to create an S3 bucket in the specified region. If necessary, you can also create a folder in the bucket by referring to [AWS official documentation - Create Folder](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/using-folders.html).
```

### Configure a user to access S3

It is recommended that you configure access to S3 using either of the following ways:

- Associate an IAM role that can access S3 with the EC2 instances where the TiKV and BR nodes run. After the association, BR can access the backup directories of S3.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    br backup full --pd "${PDIP}:2379" --storage "s3://${Bucket}/${Folder}" --s3.region "${region}"
    ```

> - Before running the `br backup` command, configure `access-key` and `secret-access-key` to access S3, and set `-send-credentials-to-tikv=true` to pass the access key from BR to each TiKV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure `access-key` and `secret-access-key` for accessing S3 in the `br` CLI, and set `--send-credentials-to-tikv=true` to pass the access key from BR to each TiKV.
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    br backup full --pd "${PDIP}:2379" --storage "s3://${Bucket}/${Folder}?access-key=${accessKey}&secret-access-key=${secretAccessKey}" --s3.region "${region}" --send-credentials-to-tikv=true
    ```

> Considering that the access key in a command is vulnerable to leakage, you are advised to associate IAM role to EC2 instances to access S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the access key in a command is vulnerable to leakage, you are recommended to associate an IAM role to EC2 instances to access S3.
```

## Back up data to S3

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br backup full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://${Bucket}/${Folder}?access-key=${accessKey}&secret-access-key=${secretAccessKey}" \
    --s3.region "${region}" \
    --send-credentials-to-tikv=true \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file backuptable.log
```

> In the preceding command,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding command:
```

> - `--s3.region`: specifies the Region of S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--s3.region`: specifies the region of S3.
```
